Data Structure
Data structures are fundamental concepts of computer science which helps is writing efficient programs in any language.
Python is a high-level, interpreted, interactive and object-oriented scripting language using which we can study the fundamentals of data structure in a simpler way as compared to other programming languages.

General Data Structures
The various data structures in computer science are divided broadly into two categories shown below.

***Python Specific Data Structures
These data structures are specific to python language and they give greater flexibility in storing different types of data and faster processing in python environment.

1.List is a collection which is ordered and changeable. Allows duplicate members.
2.Tuple is a collection which is ordered and unchangeable. Allows duplicate members.
3.Set is a collection which is unordered, unchangeable*, and unindexed. No duplicate members.
4.Dictionary is a collection which is ordered** and changeable. No duplicate members.

***Liner Data Structures
These are the data structures which store the data elements in a sequential manner.

1.Array − It is a sequential arrangement of data elements paired with the index of the data element.

2.Linked List − Each data element contains a link to another element along with the data present in it.

3.Stack − It is a data structure which follows only to specific order of operation. LIFO(last in First Out) or FILO(First in Last Out).

4.Queue − It is similar to Stack but the order of operation is only FIFO(First In First Out).

5.Matrix − It is two dimensional data structure in which the data element is referred by a pair of indices.

***Non-Liner Data Structures
These are the data structures in which there is no sequential linking of data elements. Any pair or group of data elements can be linked to each other and can be accessed without a strict sequence.

1.Binary Tree − It is a data structure where each data element can be connected to maximum two other data elements and it starts with a root node.

2.Heap − It is a special case of Tree data structure where the data in the parent node is either strictly greater than/ equal to the child nodes or strictly less than it’s child nodes.

3.Hash Table − It is a data structure which is made of arrays associated with each other using a hash function. It retrieves values using keys rather than index from a data element.

4.Graph − It is an arrangement of vertices and nodes where some of the nodes are connected to each other through links.